Welcome to Incident Response Demo Part 2,
brought to you by IBM.
Offenses are created when
a rule is triggered and
the action is set to create an offense.
As you can see we, have three offenses
listed in the QRadar interface now.
This is the curator offense interface.
Inside the curator offense
interface it lists out any
offenses that the QRadar
rules engine has alerted on.
We have a few different ones here.
The quickest way to determine
priority is by the magnitude,
and we can look at that by just
placing our mouse over the bar graph.
As you can see there, the the first one's
a magnitude five,
second's a magnitude four.
And these are all going to be the same,
and
then this last one's a magnitude three.
So let's go ahead and
check out the magnitude five.
After we click into the offense,
we're given a summary page.
On the summary page it gives us
all kinds of different details,
including the top five Source IPs,
the Destination IPs, which log
sources were involved in the event,
as well as the categories of the events
that were used to create the offense.
One of the main things to look at on
this page is the top five innertations.
The very first one there
is malicious URL detecting.
For this instance of QRadar,
we actually have a rule that is built
to compare DNS queries
against a reference set, and
that reference set has
multiple malicious URLs in it.
If we wanted to drive down further in
this event, we can click on the events.
And we can see the different
events that were triggered.
So it was a DNS in progress
to the DNS server.
And once QRadar has seen that and
compared it to the reference set,
it created its event, and
also created the offense.
All right, so now that we've seen
the events that caused the offense,
let's go ahead and search this DNS name
out on X-Force Exchange and see if it
is rated as malicious, which it should
be since it is in our reference set.
I mean,
unless some things have happened and
somebody else is now hosting that site,
or somebody else now owns it.
Right away out here on X-Force Exchange,
it's listed as a Risk 10.
This one does have a collection.
I've already opened it up here, so
we're just going click over to it.
And for
this URL it's used as part of a malware
exfiltrating credentials via DNS attack.
And one of the command and control
servers for this is Weber.
The DNS does appear to be malicious,
so mockery QRadar and C.
So now that we've confirmed
that it is malicious DNS,
we're going to jump in the loose
events again and confirm that
the query actually didn't happen.
Right away I see that the destination IP
is one that's not in our private network.
So that tells me that that
DNS address was resolved.
And it results back to
the 192 203 230.10 address.
At this point, I would kick off
the incident response process
beginning with step two since I've already
prepared my asset list as well as my
shareholders to contact and
the events to trigger on.
Already, so I went ahead and
pulled on my incident response form here,
this is just a template.
And to be honest, they all look different.
Some of them actually are in notepad.
The first thing here is
the type of incident.
For the type of incident you want to
put DNS query to known botnet,
all the detection source of QRadar,
the environment was the LAN.
His name is Vlad PC2 to the IP address.
This case it says multiple with
the reason it says multiple is because
the workstation queried the DNS server and
then it queried the secondary DNS server.
Then the those DNS servers queried
the outside world to resolve that DNS.
So we want to pick the workstation
IP as it's the one that's affected.
And then once you know
if it's a web server, so
now with the system is a workstation and
the public IP,
fortunately our lab doesn't
currently have a public IP.
So for the public IP, I'll just make
up on let's use Google's DNS server.
The next step is to start writing
down the time we find information and
we complete a part of
the incident response process.
So next thing we do is begin recording
what time we found information.
So the first thing that we-
So the next thing that we do is begin
recording what time we found information?
The first thing that we
determined was that it
was a malicious DNS query
found that it was this DNS.
We want to copy that in there and
then continue on so
we found out the DNS query
came from a workstation, so
we can put workstation and
then the IP of the workstation.
We can put the host name in
there if we know it as well.
Identify the asset that
is being malicious.
We identified that it is a malicious URL
identified that it didn't actually go out
and make that request and
the request was successful.
It was a result.
The next step would be to go ahead and
disconnect it from the network.
So to do that,
we would want to submit a ticket and
have them disconnect the workstations,
switch port or
if it's something that's physical we can
walk over and unplug it and then circle
back with the network team to
have them disable that port.
So once we submit that ticket
over to them they disable it
then we can go ahead and
get started with the antivirus scan and
closing out the incident if
it doesn't mean reimaged.
However, in this case since it did reach
out to a botnet even if the AV skin
comes back as clean, I still think it's
a good idea to go ahead and reimage it.
But one of the reasons that we'd
want to conduct the AV scan
in what is todetermine if something
else is already on there.
Maybe OES isn't actually detecting
the virus and
it just needs a full scan to be detected.
Once the switchboards
disabled, and kick off our AV scan.
So once we have our ENS skin kicked off,
we want to go back and we want to
tidy up this document just going to
pretend like that AV skin come back.
It was clean.
After that, I would go ahead and
make the call
through interested advice since it
is unknown on a neutral network.
So we don't want any chances of that
being part of our local network.
We don't want it to infect other host or
become part of that bond itself.
And since it is just the workstation,
it's not anything super critical.
It can be reset,
reimaged pretty quickly and no harm done.
And after that,
I would send this information up and
allow them to process it and
archive it so we have it,
we know what will it happen on this day.
Once we've completed our investigation we
want to go to close the incident we can
go ahead and select a response
and we can paste our incident
response form in there.
And close the ticket,
close that offense out.
Once it's closed, it will no longer
show up in our active offenses and
then we can move on to the next offense.
So since these offer your the same
magnitude, we definitely want to
check out the the older one in
case it needs a faster response.
When I click on the offense
on the summary tab again,
we can see the offense source is this IP
address which is a workstation as well.
It's actually the same workstation
as the last offense and
we can also see that the long sources
that were part of the offense was
QRadar as well as the firewall.
And we can see that the events that
were used to create this offense where
session open and session closed events.
And in the annotations it says
that it's a possible DDOS attack.
So we never want to check this one out or
go into events.
And since this is a local to local attack,
it's a little less relevant.
Typically when you see local
to a local DDOS attacks
it's just the user that's
doing his daily job.
For instance this user
is actually working with
the server to develop
an application using an API.
So it's expected to see multiple 443
session open session closes for
that system from that workstation.
So therefore this incident
would be a false positive.
A false positive is triggered,
even though the events are typical,
they're normal traffic it might just be
something that's beginning to happen.
Or maybe it's a new server that stood up
and the roles just aren't in here yet.
The rules have been modified and
that case we would want to go ahead and
just tune QRadar.
That means that we can go ahead and
make it.
You can go ahead and close the offense and
we're going to close it as a non-issue and
not a false positive just because we
want that rule to stay in QRadar.
Once we modify the rule we
want to make a comment to
say that the threshold
was increased if that's
how you modify that rule to lessen
the amount of false positive cheat.
I'm going to click OK
close that offense out.